%META:TOPICINFO{author=\"kallea\" date=\"1145975182\" format=\"1.0\"
version=\"1.2\"}% %META:TOPICPARENT{name=\"NIPSystemReference\"}%
[NIPTodoStyle]{.twiki-macro .INCLUDE}

\<FONT CLASS=\"title\"\>TODO: Verbal Delivery System\</FONT\>

\<font class=\"query\"\>PROJECT STATUS\</font\> NOT STARTED

\<font class=\"query\"\>STATUS NOTES\</font\>

None.

\<font class=\"query\"\>ASSIGNED CODER(S)\</font\>

  ----------------- ------------------- ------------------------------
  **Who**           **From**            **Contact information**
  Main.SahraFrost   Lovecraft country   <arshi@lovecraftcountry.com>
  ----------------- ------------------- ------------------------------

\<font class=\"query\"\>WHAT?\</font\> A +NIP-Library to deliver verbal
messages to PC from NPC

\<font class=\"query\"\>PRIORITY\</font\> LOW.

\<font class=\"query\"\>ETA?\</font\> Unknown.

\<font class=\"query\"\>HOW WILL IT WORK?\</font\>

The Verbal Delivery System will be set up as a mail delivery service,
though instead of delivering objects, it relays/delivers verbal messages
that have been given for a specifically named PC.

\<font class=\"query\"\>GENERAL DESCRIPTION\</font\>

The Verbal Delivery feature is vastly similar to the delivery-object
library however the only difference is that the delivered message is
verbal. The prime example for this idea falls from a law enforced
system. Though being able to write up a report or statement or complaint
and handing it to an officer CNPC who then delivers it to the addressed
officer, a script can be added to the specified CNPC\'s where the PC
simply entails or relays a message or complaint to the CNPC who stores
it in their memory sytem, thus jotting it down on a piece of paper (like
scrolls addressed to people) and when the NPC sees the person; the
message is to be delivered to they simply whisper it, tell the occupant,
recite from their jotted down notes what has been told to them or hand
the paper in which the verbal message has been written upon by the NPC.

\<font class=\"query\"\>TECHNICAL COMMENTS\</font\>

None.

\<font class=\"query\"\>LIST OF INTERESTED PARTIES\</font\>

If this subject interests you, please add yourself to the list below.
The more interest, the higher priority a subject will get. And also, by
doing so, we will be able to notify you specifically when this
subject\'s status has changed.

    [Your Name]      [Your Email] 
    [insert a separate line above this one]

\-- Main.SahraFrost - 24 Apr 2006

\<font class=\"query\"\>COMMENTS AND SUGGESTIONS, THOUGHTS ETC. ABOUT
THIS SUBJECT\</font\>\<br\> (Please, don\'t forget to add your name to
your comment, preferably your TWiki-name.)

Sweeeeeet.

\-- Main.KalleAlm - 25 Apr 2006
