%META:TOPICINFO{author=\"kallea\" date=\"1057185495\" format=\"1.0\"
version=\"1.3\"}% %META:TOPICPARENT{name=\"NIPSystemReference\"}%
[NIPStyle]{.twiki-macro .INCLUDE}

\<FONT CLASS=\"title\"\>The +NIP-tool\</FONT\>

**Introduction**

The +NIP-tool is the central tool for staff NPC control. It by default
contains a group of commands, but with relative ease, new, home-made
commands can be added to the tool.

For instance, the Marrach guard system has a few extensions that the
Skotos Seven +NIP doesn\'t have. One of those is the \'precedence\'
+nip-command, which is used to set the required link on the chain, for
exits.

The +NIP-tool is comprised of 9 basic functions: die, list, live,
present, record, register, scene, set, sig.

\* the functions [die](NIPToolDie) and [live](NIPToolLive) are used to
turn NPC\'s on/off \* [list](NIPToolList) is used to display the NIP
contents of an NPC \* [present](NIPToolPresent) is used to define the
usage of the [presents lib](NIPLibRefPresents) \*
[record](NIPToolRecord) and [scene](NIPToolScene) are used to set up and
record various behavior scenes and moods \* [register](NIPToolRegister)
is used to add a new function to the +NIP-toolkit \* [set](NIPToolSet)
is used to initialize a new NPC \* [sig](NIPToolSig) is used to send a
signal to an NPC

\-- Main.KalleAlm - 29 Jun 2003

\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--

In Admins.CompleteVersion, the explanation of +NIP is currently blank.
Theoretically, would this be the page to link to for a \"more help\"
explanation? If not, what would? I don\'t feel that I understand the
system well enough to encapsulate it into a paragraph or two of
explanation, so I\'m going off your opinions on this.\<br\> \--
Main.JonathanStickles - 30 Jun 2003

This\'d be it, yea. This is the \"central\" page for all +NIP
documentation, most of which is unwritten at this point. Expect to write
it up before GenCon, but I can\'t be less vague than that due to my
current situation I\'m afraid.\<br\> \-- Main.KalleAlm - 02 Jul 2003
