%META:TOPICINFO{author=\"kallea\" date=\"1099261572\" format=\"1.0\"
version=\"1.9\"}% %META:TOPICPARENT{name=\"NIPSystemReference\"}%
[NIPStyle]{.twiki-macro .INCLUDE} [NIPRefStuff]{.twiki-macro .INCLUDE}

Main.KalleAlm \<ul\> **08 Mar 2004** \<li\>Fixed mounting issue with
spawned mount. (exported properties) \<li\>Added \"mounted\" and
\"unmounted\" adjectives to mounts depending on if they were mounted or
not (at request by the LC team) \<br/\>**30 Mar 2004** \<li\>Added
killer library to list, and updated movement library to allow external
usage of the \'leave through random exit\' functionality. \<br/\>**19
May 2004** \<li\>Moved \"system:revision\" property out of
<Data:NIP:system> into Lib:NIP:updates, to promote syncing.
\<li\>Updated recording utility to include track link vectoring.
Additionally updated [the how-to record a behavior data object
document](NIPHowRecord). \<li\>Added [replaying](NIPLibRefReplaying)
library. \<br/\>**21 May 2004** \<li\>Introduced categories to the
library references and updated NIPSystemReference page and each library
reference page. \<br/\>**22 May 2004** \<li\>Finished the [recording and
behavior](NIPClassRecording) class. God, I\'m tired of writing.
\<br/\>**06 Aug 2004** \<li\>Added [spawner](NIPTodoSpawner) to
todo-list after request from Lovecraft team. \<br/\>**10 Aug 2004**
\<li\>Completed [spawner](NIPLibRefSpawner). \<li\>Updated documentation
for the [trading](NIPLibRefTrading) library to reflect internal changes.
\<li\>\... and my god, we\'ve reached 300 NIP documents. \<br/\>**18 Aug
2004** \<li\>Completed and updated new library
[wearer](NIPLibRefWearer). \<li\>Began writing the [Using behavior in
home-made code](NIPRefBehavior) reference. \<br/\>**31 Oct 2004 \[NC\]**
\<li\>Changed hacky \"daily update\" features (courier, trash) into
using the not-so-hacky CronDaemon. \<li\>Added library
[autostart](NIPLibRefAutostart). \<li\>Revision \#26 (Aug 23): The new
property type map system was implemented in every present (official) NIP
library, and thus, each library must be scanned and the property map
entries retrieved. \<li\>Revision \#27 (Oct 13): Musician hook tweak due
to bug fix. \<li\>Revision \#28 (Oct 27): The script \"merry:lib:slay\"
was added, to enable a \'trashcan\' feature for trashed items.
\<li\>Revision \#29 (Oct 29): Courier tweak to make couriers aware of
teleporting recipients: The witness script \"witness:teleport%nip:core\"
was added. \</ul\>
